Welcome to Balance Patch. 

BP is a player-made balance/gameplay patch for Rise of the Reds 1.87. It's development started quite a while ago in 2018, and it is aimed to achieve several major goals. 

1) First and foremost - create a solid, competitive PvP (Player vs Player) state of balance, aimed at making PvP playable and enjoyable both at highest competitive level, as well as at casual player level.

2) Make factions adhere to their intended archetypes (aka Faction Themes) that were given to them in the beginning of RotR development. What kept many of us playing this specific RTS is it's design and promise of asymmetric balance that 
you can barely meet in any other RTS game, where factions have very clear set of strenghts and weaknesses, and instead of just having a different art style and atmosphere, they symbolize a specific RTS genre playstyles, often opposite to
 each other. Each faction should feel unique in this regard, in accordance to how it was originally envisioned by mod creator. 
Something we feel vanilla's RotR development process did not fully deliver, and specific balance decisions had negative impact on asymmetric gameplay.

3) Based on 1st and 2nd, make it so players feel enjoyment from playing this game. Give player the feel of immersion when it plays a faction, feels it's soul, uncovers both opportunities and struggles each of factions provide.
And those opportunities and struggles should be unique to each of them. This is the beauty of asymmetric balance/gameplay design that RotR is known for.

4) Make it so there are no useless units or general powers, something vanilla RotR is a little guilty of. By addressing this, we widened available array of choices and decisions players can make through the game.

As you can imagine, changelog is pretty big, so it was divided into 6 files, 5 factions + Global. At the very least I'd recommend to read Global changes, as well as changelof of the faction you play most.
If you want to only know latest changes (for example, after an update), check the BP2.998.02 changelog file.

As for AI - it's currently in development and it's first iteration will be available to public in a couple of weeks. All of above applies to PvE gameplay as well.


Now, you've probably already installed the patch with DeLauncher (the one that lets you easily switch between BPatch, Hanpatch and vanilla), but in case you've got BP files some other way, here's the 
INSTALLATION INSTRUCTION:
REQUIRES RISE OF THE REDS 1.87 PUBLIC BUILD 2.0

In a folder, where Rise of the Reds 1.87, find the file called!!Rotr_Intrnl_INI.gib and !!RotR_Intrnl_ENG.gib
This is an archive with all unit stats from 1.87, REMOVE or MOVE it away to some place, for example to Desktop.

Put !!!Rotr_Intrnl_INI_BP_2.998.02.big (It can be called differently, if you got a different version) into the ROtR 1.87 folder.
When launching the game, it's highly RECOMMENDED to select QUICKSTART option.
Enjoy.

OPTIONAL FILES:
GrimTuesdayUI - same UI as the one I'm using.
FasterMenu - a simple tweak I made to reduce time for main menu window transition.

